<?xml version="1.0"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"><head><title>Basic Usage</title><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="en.css"/><script type="text/javascript" src="jquery.js"/><script type="text/javascript" src="jquery.syntax.js"/><script type="text/javascript" src="yelp.js"/></head><body><div class="header"><div class="trails"><div class="trail"><a class="trail" href="index.xhtml" title="Pan Manual"><span class="app application">Pan</span> Manual</a> » </div></div></div><div class="body"><div class="links nextlinks"><a class="nextlinks-prev" href="pan-nutshell.xhtml" title="Usenet in a Nutshell">Previous</a>  |  <a class="nextlinks-next" href="pan-groups.xhtml" title="Groups">Next</a></div><div class="sect1 contents" id="pan-basic-usage"><div class="inner"><div class="hgroup"><h1 class="title">Basic Usage</h1></div><div class="region"><p class="para">This section is an overview on how to perform basic Usenet actions with <span class="app application">Pan</span>.
      <div class="list itemizedlist"><ul class="list itemizedlist"><li class="list itemizedlist">
		  <p class="para">
			<a class="xref" href="pan-basic-usage.xhtml#pan-basic-server" title="Setup a News Server">Setup a News Server</a></p>
		</li><li class="list itemizedlist">
		  <p class="para">
			<a class="xref" href="pan-basic-usage.xhtml#pan-basic-groups" title="Selecting a News Group">Selecting a News Group</a></p>
		</li><li class="list itemizedlist">
		  <p class="para">
			<a class="xref" href="pan-basic-usage.xhtml#pan-basic-articles" title="Reading Articles">Reading Articles</a></p>
		</li><li class="list itemizedlist">
		  <p class="para">
			<a class="xref" href="pan-basic-usage.xhtml#pan-basic-post" title="Posting Articles">Posting Articles</a></p>
		</li><li class="list itemizedlist">
		  <p class="para">
			<a class="xref" href="pan-basic-usage.xhtml#pan-basic-reply" title="Replying to Articles">Replying to Articles</a></p>
		</li><li class="list itemizedlist">
		  <p class="para">
			<a class="xref" href="pan-basic-usage.xhtml#pan-basic-binaries" title="Downloading Binaries">Downloading Binaries</a></p>
		</li></ul></div> </p><div class="links sectionlinks"><ul><li class="links"><a class="xref" href="pan-basic-usage.xhtml#pan-basic-server" title="Setup a News Server">Setup a News Server</a></li><li class="links"><a class="xref" href="pan-basic-usage.xhtml#pan-basic-groups" title="Selecting a News Group">Selecting a News Group</a></li><li class="links"><a class="xref" href="pan-basic-usage.xhtml#pan-basic-articles" title="Reading Articles">Reading Articles</a></li><li class="links"><a class="xref" href="pan-basic-usage.xhtml#pan-basic-post" title="Posting Articles">Posting Articles</a></li><li class="links"><a class="xref" href="pan-basic-usage.xhtml#pan-basic-reply" title="Replying to Articles">Replying to Articles</a></li><li class="links"><a class="xref" href="pan-basic-usage.xhtml#pan-basic-binaries" title="Downloading Binaries">Downloading Binaries</a></li></ul></div><div class="sect2 sect" id="pan-basic-server"><div class="inner"><div class="hgroup"><h2 class="title">Setup a News Server</h2></div><div class="region"><p class="para">When you start <span class="app application">Pan</span> for the first time, the <span class="gui interface">Add a Server</span> dialog is displayed.</p><p class="para">At this point, you must enter the connection information for the server you wish to access.  After you
				enter this information, <span class="app application">Pan</span> will contact the server and download a list of all the groups the server
				carries and save it to disk.. </p><p class="para"> Refer to <a class="xref" href="pan-custom.xhtml#pan-custom-servers" title="News Servers">News Servers</a> for more detailed information:</p></div></div></div><div class="sect2 sect" id="pan-basic-groups"><div class="inner"><div class="hgroup"><h2 class="title">Selecting a News Group</h2></div><div class="region"><p class="para">The Group Pane contains a list of all the news groups available on the server.  Scroll through the list
		 and enter a group by clicking on it's name.</p><p class="para">If this is the first time you have entered this group, you will be prompted on how many article headers you wish to
		 retrieve from the server.  You can choose to retreive all article headers available for that group or limit the
		 retrieval by either quantity of articles or number of days. </p><p class="para">After making a selection from this dialog, <span class="app application">Pan</span> will download the article headers for the
		 selected group and save them locally on the computer.</p><div class="note note" title="Note"><div class="inner"><div class="region"><div class="contents"><p class="para">Depending on the news server, certain groups might be "dead" and have no headers available for
			 download.</p></div></div></div></div><p class="para">After article header retrieval, the group name in the Group Pane will turn bold, which means there are unread
	 articles in that particular group.  Also the number of unread articles in the group will be displayed in parenthesis
	 following the group name.</p><p class="para">It's not unusual for a server to have tens of thousands of groups, but usually a user is only interested in a few.
	 To better keep track of the interesting groups, select the group name by middle-clicking on it and choose
	 <span class="guiseq menuchoice"><span class="gui guimenu">Groups</span> ▸ <span class="gui guimenuitem">Subscribe</span></span>
	 .  Scroll the group window to the top if necessary and you will see that the selected newsgroup is listed directly under
	 the Subscribed Groups section.</p></div></div></div><div class="sect2 sect" id="pan-basic-articles"><div class="inner"><div class="hgroup"><h2 class="title">Reading Articles</h2></div><div class="region"><p class="para">After entering a group, the header pane will be filled with article headers.  The header pane can be sorted by
		  clicking on the topmost row of a column, where the column name is located.  Clicking again will reverse the sort.
		  The column that is used for sorting will have a downward arrow after the column name and the entire column will
		  darken.</p><p class="para"><span class="app application">Pan</span> defaults to showing collapsed threads.  Only the first article of the thread is shown with a number in
		  parenthesis indicating how many posts are hidden.  Clicking on the right-facing arrow before the header text will
		  expand the thread, showing the hidden articles in the thread.  Reading the first article of the thread will also
		  expand the thread.  The keyboard shortcut for expanding threads is shift-right arrow.  Shift-left arrow will collapse
		  the thread.</p><p class="para">Clicking on a header will download the article from the server, store it in the article cache and display it in the
		  article pane.  The article is then marked as read.  Read articles are distinguished in the header pane by using a
		  normal (not bold) font and by showing a open envelope icon in the state column.</p><p class="para">You can scroll the message in the Article Pane by using the scrollbar or by pressing the spacebar.  Whenever
		  the bottom of the retreived article is already displayed, press the spacebar will download the next
		  article.</p></div></div></div><div class="sect2 sect" id="pan-basic-post"><div class="inner"><div class="hgroup"><h2 class="title">Posting Articles</h2></div><div class="region"><p class="para">To post an article in a group and start a new thread, select the group you wish to post to in the Group Pane
		  and then choose
		 <span class="guiseq menuchoice"><span class="gui guimenu">Post</span> ▸ <span class="gui guimenuitem">Post to a Newsgroup</span></span>.
		 If this is the first time you have posted an article to a newsgroup, the <span class="gui interface">Posting Profile</span>
		 dialog will appear and you will be required to fill in some information.  Next, the
		 <span class="gui interface">Post Article</span> dialog will appear.  Type in a subject and then enter the body of the message
		 at the bottom.  When done, choose
		 <span class="guiseq menuchoice"><span class="gui guimenu">File</span> ▸ <span class="gui guimenuitem">Send Article</span></span>
       to send the article to the news server and out to the rest of Usenet.</p><p class="para"> Refer to <a class="xref" href="pan-posting.xhtml#pan-posting-profiles" title="Posting Profiles Dialog">Posting Profiles Dialog</a>  and <a class="xref" href="pan-posting.xhtml#pan-posting-dialog" title="Post Article Dialog">Post Article Dialog</a> for more detailed
		   information:</p></div></div></div><div class="sect2 sect" id="pan-basic-reply"><div class="inner"><div class="hgroup"><h2 class="title">Replying to Articles</h2></div><div class="region"><p class="para">If you want to post a reply to a specific	article and have your followup appear in that article's thread,
			highlight that article in the Header Pane with the middle mouse button and use
		 <span class="guiseq menuchoice"><span class="gui guimenu">Post</span> ▸ <span class="gui guimenuitem">Followup to Newsgroup</span></span>.
		 The highlighted article's text will appear as quoted text (each line is preceeded by a "&gt;") in the editor window.
		 Type in your response and then choose
		 <span class="guiseq menuchoice"><span class="gui guimenu">File</span> ▸ <span class="gui guimenuitem">Send Article</span></span>
         to send the article to the news server. </p><p class="para">If you want to send a reply to a specfic article via email, highlight that article in the Header Pane with
			 the middle mouse button and choose
		 <span class="guiseq menuchoice"><span class="gui guimenu">Post</span> ▸ <span class="gui guimenuitem">Reply to Author in Mail</span></span>
		 .  The highlighted article's text will appear as quoted text (each line is preceeded by a "&gt;") in the editor window.
		 Type in your response and then choose
		 <span class="guiseq menuchoice"><span class="gui guimenu">File</span> ▸ <span class="gui guimenuitem">Send Article</span></span>
		 and the text will be sent to the default external email application.  Double-check the To: field and then send the
		 email as you normally would with that application.</p></div></div></div><div class="sect2 sect" id="pan-basic-binaries"><div class="inner"><div class="hgroup"><h2 class="title">Downloading Binaries</h2></div><div class="region"><p class="para">A binary file in Usenet is usually composed of many smaller articles.  <span class="app application">Pan</span> automatically organizes all
			these articles under one special article header.  If all the data that comprises the binary header made it
			through the Usenet network successfully, a green, full  puzzle-piece is displayed in the first column.  To save
			the data, select the special header in the header window and use
		 <span class="guiseq menuchoice"><span class="gui guimenu">Articles</span> ▸ <span class="gui guimenuitem">Save Articles</span></span>
		 to download and save the binary data to disk.</p><p class="para">If the binary posts are corrupted by missing or incorrect data, a red, incomplete puzzle-piece is displayed
			in the first column.  The file may be saved, but it will probably be corrupt in some way.</p><div class="note note" title="Note"><div class="inner"><div class="region"><div class="contents"><p class="para">Supporting binary newsgroups takes a large amount of bandwidth.  Unless you are using a premium news
				server provider, it is not unusual for many binary files to be missing or corrupt.</p></div></div></div></div></div></div></div></div></div></div><div class="links nextlinks"><a class="nextlinks-prev" href="pan-nutshell.xhtml" title="Usenet in a Nutshell">Previous</a>  |  <a class="nextlinks-next" href="pan-groups.xhtml" title="Groups">Next</a></div><div class="clear"/></div><div class="footer"/></body></html>
