<?xml version="1.0"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"><head><title>Usenet in a Nutshell</title><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="en.css"/><script type="text/javascript" src="jquery.js"/><script type="text/javascript" src="jquery.syntax.js"/><script type="text/javascript" src="yelp.js"/></head><body><div class="header"><div class="trails"><div class="trail"><a class="trail" href="index.xhtml" title="Pan Manual"><span class="app application">Pan</span> Manual</a> » </div></div></div><div class="body"><div class="links nextlinks"><a class="nextlinks-prev" href="pan-getstart.xhtml" title="Getting Started">Previous</a>  |  <a class="nextlinks-next" href="pan-basic-usage.xhtml" title="Basic Usage">Next</a></div><div class="sect1 contents" id="pan-nutshell"><div class="inner"><div class="hgroup"><h1 class="title">Usenet in a Nutshell</h1></div><div class="region"><p class="para">Knowledge about how Usenet works will make using Pan easier.</p><div class="links sectionlinks"><ul><li class="links"><a class="xref" href="pan-nutshell.xhtml#pan-nutshell-description" title="Description">Description</a></li><li class="links"><a class="xref" href="pan-nutshell.xhtml#pan-nutshell-organize" title="Organization">Organization</a></li><li class="links"><a class="xref" href="pan-nutshell.xhtml#pan-nutshell-headers" title="Article Headers">Article Headers</a></li><li class="links"><a class="xref" href="pan-nutshell.xhtml#pan-nutshell-binary" title="Binary Data">Binary Data</a></li></ul></div><div class="sect2 sect" id="pan-nutshell-description"><div class="inner"><div class="hgroup"><h2 class="title">Description</h2></div><div class="region"><p class="para">Usenet is a distributed discussion system.  Using a special program called a newsreader, a user accesses
				a news server to read and post email-like messages called articles.  These articles are then exchanged
				back and forth with other news servers throughout the world.  In this way, articles proprogate from one
				news server to another throughout the entire Usenet system.</p></div></div></div><div class="sect2 sect" id="pan-nutshell-organize"><div class="inner"><div class="hgroup"><h2 class="title">Organization</h2></div><div class="region"><p class="para">Articles are organized into catagories called groups.  In discussion groups, most articles are responses
				to another article.  The set of articles which can be traced to one single non-reply article is called a
				thread.  When articles are organized into threads, it is much easier to follow a single discussion.</p></div></div></div><div class="sect2 sect" id="pan-nutshell-headers"><div class="inner"><div class="hgroup"><h2 class="title">Article Headers</h2></div><div class="region"><p class="para">Articles are routed around Usenet based on the information contained in the article header, which is the
				first part of an article that contains information like the subject, author, date and routing information.
				To save time and bandwidth, most newsreaders first download just the article headers to sort and thread
				them.  The user selects a article of interest from the list of headers and then downloads the article body
				to read.</p></div></div></div><div class="sect2 sect" id="pan-nutshell-binary"><div class="inner"><div class="hgroup"><h2 class="title">Binary Data</h2></div><div class="region"><p class="para">Usenet was originally created to distribute text content encoded in 7-bit ASCII.  With additional
				encoding programs, multiple posts per chunk and other various tricks, it became possible to send binary
				data through Usenet.  Certain groups are devoted specifically to binary content such as images, music or
				movies.</p></div></div></div></div></div></div><div class="links nextlinks"><a class="nextlinks-prev" href="pan-getstart.xhtml" title="Getting Started">Previous</a>  |  <a class="nextlinks-next" href="pan-basic-usage.xhtml" title="Basic Usage">Next</a></div><div class="clear"/></div><div class="footer"/></body></html>
