<?xml version="1.0"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"><head><title>Scoring</title><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="en.css"/><script type="text/javascript" src="jquery.js"/><script type="text/javascript" src="jquery.syntax.js"/><script type="text/javascript" src="yelp.js"/></head><body><div class="header"><div class="trails"><div class="trail"><a class="trail" href="index.xhtml" title="Pan Manual"><span class="app application">Pan</span> Manual</a> » </div></div></div><div class="body"><div class="links nextlinks"><a class="nextlinks-prev" href="pan-tasks.xhtml" title="Tasks">Previous</a>  |  <a class="nextlinks-next" href="pan-custom.xhtml" title="Customization">Next</a></div><div class="sect1 contents" id="pan-scoring"><div class="inner"><div class="hgroup"><h1 class="title">Scoring</h1></div><div class="region"><p class="para">Scoring allows the user to give an article a rating based on user-defined scoring rules.  This rating can then be
	  used by <span class="app application">Pan</span> to perform score-based actions.</p><p class="para">When a group's article headers are first downloaded from the news server, all the articles have a score of 0.
	  Then the list of scoring rules in the score file are applied to each article.  The score file rules might give an
	  article from John Smith a high score, while articles with a subject line containing the phrase "For Sale" a negative
	  score.</p><div class="list itemizedlist"><ul class="list itemizedlist"><li class="list itemizedlist">
	  <p class="para">
	    <a class="xref" href="pan-scoring.xhtml#pan-scoring-actions" title="Scoring Actions">Scoring Actions</a></p>
	</li><li class="list itemizedlist">
	  <p class="para">
	    <a class="xref" href="pan-scoring.xhtml#pan-scoring-addrules" title="Adding Scoring Rules">Adding Scoring Rules</a></p>
	</li><li class="list itemizedlist">
	  <p class="para">
	    <a class="xref" href="pan-scoring.xhtml#pan-scoring-editrules" title="Editing or Deleting Scoring Rules">Editing or Deleting Scoring Rules</a></p>
    </li><li class="list itemizedlist">
	  <p class="para">
	    <a class="xref" href="pan-scoring.xhtml#pan-scoring-advanced" title="Advanced Scoring">Advanced Scoring</a></p>
    </li></ul></div><div class="links sectionlinks"><ul><li class="links"><a class="xref" href="pan-scoring.xhtml#pan-scoring-actions" title="Scoring Actions">Scoring Actions</a></li><li class="links"><a class="xref" href="pan-scoring.xhtml#pan-scoring-addrules" title="Adding Scoring Rules">Adding Scoring Rules</a></li><li class="links"><a class="xref" href="pan-scoring.xhtml#pan-scoring-editrules" title="Editing or Deleting Scoring Rules">Editing or Deleting Scoring Rules</a></li><li class="links"><a class="xref" href="pan-scoring.xhtml#pan-scoring-advanced" title="Advanced Scoring">Advanced Scoring</a></li></ul></div><div class="sect2 sect" id="pan-scoring-actions"><div class="inner"><div class="hgroup"><h2 class="title">Scoring Actions</h2></div><div class="region"><p class="para"><span class="app application">Pan</span> can perform two actions based on a article's score:
			 <div class="list itemizedlist"><ul class="list itemizedlist"><li class="list itemizedlist"><p class="para">View a article by using
					  <span class="guiseq menuchoice"><span class="gui guimenu">View</span> ▸ <span class="gui guisubmenu">Header Pane</span> ▸ <span class="gui guimenuitem">Match Scores of xxxx</span></span>
					  .  The default is to hide articles (by not matching) with a score of -9999. and view all other
					  scores.</p></li><li class="list itemizedlist"><p class="para">Change the background and text color of the score column in the Header Pane.  This is
						  defined in
					  <span class="guiseq menuchoice"><span class="gui guimenu">Edit</span> ▸ <span class="gui guisubmenu">Preferences</span> ▸ <span class="gui guimenuitem">Colors</span></span>
				</p></li></ul></div>
		</p></div></div></div><div class="sect2 sect" id="pan-scoring-addrules"><div class="inner"><div class="hgroup"><h2 class="title">Adding Scoring Rules</h2></div><div class="region"><p class="para">There are several ways to add rules to the score file.  Select a article in the Header Pane and then
			  select
				  <span class="guiseq menuchoice"><span class="gui guimenu">Articles</span> ▸ <span class="gui guisubmenu">Watch Thread</span></span>
				 .  This rule sets the score of any post located in the thread of the selected article to 9999.
		  </p><p class="para">The opposite of the above rule is
				  <span class="guiseq menuchoice"><span class="gui guimenu">Articles</span> ▸ <span class="gui guisubmenu">Ignore Thread</span></span>
				 .  This rule sets the score of any post located in the thread of the selected article to -9999.
		  </p><p class="para">Both of these scoring rules only work in the selected group and expire in one month.</p><p class="para">Selecting a article and selecting
				  <span class="guiseq menuchoice"><span class="gui guimenu">Articles</span> ▸ <span class="gui guisubmenu">Ignore Author</span></span>
				  will open the <span class="gui interface">New Scoring Rule dialog</span>.</p><p class="para">The default of this scoring rule is to score all the posts of the author of the selected article -9999 for
			  the next month in the selected group.  By clicking on various fields and selecting different options in the
			  New Scoring Rule dialog, you can customize the rule further.  For instance, instead of having the rule expire
			  in one month, you can have the rule last forever.  Also note that you can make the rule add to the score of a
			  article, making it a watch rule.  So the name "Ignore Author" can be somewhat of a misnomer.</p><p class="para">When finished, click add and rescore to close the dialog box.</p><p class="para">Selecting a article and selecting
				  <span class="guiseq menuchoice"><span class="gui guimenu">Articles</span> ▸ <span class="gui guisubmenu">Add a Scoring Rule</span></span>
				  is very similar to the Ignore Author section described above as it opens the same <span class="gui interface">New Scoring
					  Rule</span> dialog, just with different defaults.  Construct a rule in the same fashion as
				  described above.</p></div></div></div><div class="sect2 sect" id="pan-scoring-editrules"><div class="inner"><div class="hgroup"><h2 class="title">Editing or Deleting Scoring Rules</h2></div><div class="region"><p class="para">Selecting a article that is currently being scored and choosing
			  <span class="guiseq menuchoice"><span class="gui guimenu">Articles</span> ▸ <span class="gui guisubmenu">Edit Article's Watch/Ignore/Score</span></span>
			  will open the <span class="gui interface">Article's Scores</span> dialog box.  From this dialog you can manipulate the
			  scoring rule for the currently selected article.  Each rule will have its own row describing the scoring
			  action (plus or minus points), locations and line number of this rule in the score file and the texts of the
			  rule.  Select the rule and click <span class="gui guibutton">+Add</span> button to alter the rule or
			  <span class="gui guibutton">-Remove</span> button to delete the rule from the score file.  Click <span class="gui guibutton">close and
				  rescore</span> when finished.</p></div></div></div><div class="sect2 sect" id="pan-scoring-advanced"><div class="inner"><div class="hgroup"><h2 class="title">Advanced Scoring</h2></div><div class="region"><p class="para">The scoring file is located at <span class="file filename" dir="ltr">~/.pan2/Scoring</span>.  Advanced users might want to edit this
			  file directly with a text editor to create advanced scoring rules that are difficult or impossible to
			  construct from the <span class="gui interface">New Scoring Rule</span> dialog.  The format of the scoring rules is
			  similar to the application <span class="app application">slrn</span>, but be aware that not all
			  <span class="app application">slrn</span> scoring functions will work in <span class="app application">Pan</span>.</p></div></div></div></div></div></div><div class="links nextlinks"><a class="nextlinks-prev" href="pan-tasks.xhtml" title="Tasks">Previous</a>  |  <a class="nextlinks-next" href="pan-custom.xhtml" title="Customization">Next</a></div><div class="clear"/></div><div class="footer"/></body></html>
